Added improved treasury docs (#260)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn-treasury.md

4. Parathreads: [Parathreads](learn-parathreads) participate in a per-block auction for block inclusion. Part of this bid goes to the validator that accepts the block and the remainder goes to the Treasury.

## Creating a Treasury Proposal

The proposer has to deposit 5% of the requested amount or 20 KSM (whichever is higher) as an anti-spam measure. This amount is burned if the proposal is rejected, or refunded otherwise. These values are subject to [governance](learn-governance) so they may change in the future.

### Announcing the Proposal

To minimize storage on chain, proposals don't contain contextual information. When a user submits a proposal, they will probably need to find an off-chain way to explain the proposal. Most discussion takes place on the following platforms:

> - [Commonwealth.im](https://commonwealth.im) which allows users to log in with their KSM address and automatically reads proposals from the chain, turning them into discussion threads.

Reviewer: Let's move this to the bottom of the list (guessing Riot is actually the most used?)
```suggestion
- [Commonwealth.im](https://commonwealth.im) is a community site that allows users to log in with their KSM address and automatically reads proposals from the chain, turning them into discussion threads.
```

id: learn-treasury
title: Treasury
sidebar_label: Treasury

> description: Details about Kusama's on-chain treasury - how it works, how it's funded, what its purposes is, and a guide on making spending proposals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Details about Polkadot's on-chain treasury.
```

---

> The treasury is a pot of funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, [inefficiencies in the chain's staking set](learn-staking#inflation), etc. - see next section for details. The funds held in the treasury can be spent by making a spending proposal that, if approved by the council, will enter a queue that is periodically cleared. This is known as the budget period, and its duration is subject to [governance](learn-governance), with current defaults set to 24 days for Polkadot mainnet, and 6 days for Kusama. The treasury attempts to spend as many proposals in the queue as it can without running out of funds. If the treasury ends a budget period without spending all of its funds, it suffers a burn of a percentage of its funds -- thereby causing deflationary pressure. This percentage is currently at 0%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The treasury is a pot of funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, [staking inefficiencies](learn-staking#inflation), etc. The funds held in the treasury can be spent by making a spending proposal that, if approved by the council, will enter a waiting period before distribution. This waiting period is known as the budget period, and its duration is subject to [governance](learn-governance), with current defaults set to 24 days for Polkadot mainnet, and 6 days for Kusama. The treasury attempts to spend as many proposals in the queue as it can without running out of funds. If the treasury ends a budget period without spending all of its funds, it suffers a burn of a percentage of its funds -- thereby causing deflationary pressure. This percentage is currently at 0%.
```

When a stakeholder wishes to propose a spend from the treasury, they must reserve a deposit totaling 5% of the proposed spend (see below for variations). This deposit will be slashed if the proposal is rejected, and returned if the proposal was accepted.

Proposals may consist of (but are not limited to):

- Infrastructure deployment and continued operation.
- Network security operations (monitoring services, continuous auditing).
- Ecosystem provisions (collaborations with friendly chains).
- Marketing activities (advertising, paid features, collaborations).
- Community events and outreach (meetups, pizza parties, hackerspaces).
- Software development (wallets and wallet integration, clients and client upgrades).

The treasury is ultimately controlled by the council, and how the funds will be spent is up to their judgment.

## Funding the Treasury

The Treasury is funded from different sources:

> 1. When a validator is slashed for equivocation or invalid attestations of parachain blocks, the slashed amount is sent to the Treasury with a reward going to the entity which reported the validator (another validator or fisherman). The reward is taken from the slash amount and varies per offence and number of reporters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Slashing: When a validator is slashed for any reason, the slashed amount is sent to the Treasury with a reward going to the entity that reported the validator (another validator or fisherman). The reward is taken from the slash amount and varies per offence and number of reporters.
```

> 2. Transaction fees paid on the Relay Chain for executing balance transfers, governance votes, council actions or any other function allowed by [pallets](https://substrate.dev/docs/en/tutorials/adding-a-module-to-your-runtime/) included in the runtime.

Reviewer: This information about pallets makes it more confusing and is an implementation detail. Polkadot's runtime construction has nothing to do with transaction fees in this context.
```suggestion
2. Transaction fees: A portion of each block's transaction fees goes to the Treasury, with the remainder going to the block author.
```

> 3. Staking inefficiency. [Inflation](learn-staking#inflation) is designed to be 10% in the first year, and the ideal staking ratio is set at 50%, meaning half of all tokens should be locked in staking. Any deviation from this ratio will cause a proportional amount of the inflation to go to the Treasury. In other words, if 50% of all tokens are staked, then 100% of the 10% inflation goes to the validators as reward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Staking inefficiency: [Inflation](learn-staking#inflation) is designed to be 10% in the first year, and the ideal staking ratio is set at 50%, meaning half of all tokens should be locked in staking. Any deviation from this ratio will cause a proportional amount of the inflation to go to the Treasury. In other words, if 50% of all tokens are staked, then 100% of the inflation goes to the validators as reward. If the staking rate is greater than or less than 50%, then the validators will receive less, with the remainder going to the Treasury.
```

> 4. Once [Parathreads](learn-parathreads) are live, the per-block auction they have to go through to include their block on the Relay Chain will also likely contribute to the Treasury.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Parathreads: [Parathreads](learn-parathreads) participate in a per-block auction for block inclusion. Part of this bid goes to the validator that accepts the block and the remainder goes to the Treasury.
```

## Creating a Treasury Proposal

> The proposer has to deposit 5% of the requested amount or 20 KSM (whichever is higher) as an anti-spam measure. This amount is burned if the proposal is rejected, or refunded otherwise. These values are subject to [governance](learn-governance) so they may change in the future. The way to always find out the up to date values is to [query the constants](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/chainstate/constants) as in the image below, or to look at the [source code](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/treasury/src/lib.rs#L784).

Reviewer: We should never be linking to code from the wiki. It's an implementation detail.
```suggestion
The proposer has to deposit 5% of the requested amount or 20 KSM (whichever is higher) as an anti-spam measure. This amount is burned if the proposal is rejected, or refunded otherwise. These values are subject to [governance](learn-governance) so they may change in the future.
```

> ![Constants queried in the Polkadot JS UI](/img/treasury/constants.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Announcing the Proposal

> Before submitting a proposal, it is good practice to announce it. Alternatively, it's good to explain it in detail after it's been proposed.

Reviewer: "it is / it is / it is" - this is lazy and passive, and doesn't give any insight into the design of Polkadot.
```suggestion
To minimize storage on chain, proposals don't contain contextual information. When a user submits a proposal, they will probably need to find an off-chain way to explain the proposal. Most discussion takes place on the following platforms:
```

> Several platforms exist for this, none of them official. What matters during an explanation is that the explainer can prove they're behind the proposal, and this is likely easiest to do on a Web3-enabled platform like [Commonwealth](https://commonwealth.im). Commonwealth allows users to log in with their KSM (or Polkadot) address, which immediately binds the identity they're using for on-chain actions with the submissions made on the platform. [Here is an example of an explanatory thread on Commonwealth](https://commonwealth.im/kusama/proposal/discussion/284-treasury-proposal-11-a-demo), made by the same account which created the Treasury spend proposal it's discussing.

Reviewer: Not the place to talk about Commonwealth.
```suggestion
```

> Commonwealth is still in beta and can be buggy, so other platforms can be used as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The [Kusama forum](https://forum.kusama.network) and [Polkadot forum](https://forum.polkadot.network) can be used for proposal explanations on Kusama and Polkadot respectively.
- The [KGP (Kusama Governance Proposals)](https://github.com/kusamanetwork/KGPs) repository is well suited for detailed issues about proposals on Kusama, with the added advantage of easy linkability across repositories and tagging team members.

> - [Riot](https://riot.w3f.tech/#/room/#kusama:matrix.parity.io) is useful, but perhaps too ephemeral for long-form discussions about specific proposals, so it's best suited for promoting any of the above.

Reviewer: This is your opinion.
```suggestion
- Many community members participate in discussion in the Kusama [Riot](https://riot.w3f.tech/#/room/#kusama:matrix.parity.io) chat.
```

Spreading the word about the proposal's explanation is ultimately up to the proposer - the recommended way is using official Riot channels like the [Kusama Direction room](https://riot.w3f.tech/#/room/#kusama:matrix.parity.io) or the [Kusama Watercooler](https://riot.w3f.tech/#/room/#kusamawatercooler:polkadot.builders). For Polkadot, you may want to frequent the [Polkadot Watercooler](https://riot.w3f.tech/#/room/#polkadot-watercooler:matrix.org).

> ### Creating the Proposal

Reviewer: This and the following should be in a dedicated tutorial page. This is an example of how to create a proposal with Polkadot JS, but anyone could make a front end to dispatch the appropriate calls.

Author: This does not need a separate page imo. We have too many pages as is, and a handy guide right next to the explanation is what most people expect in my experience. Polkadot JS UI is the "most official" platform we have and until there are alternatives that don't involve manually hashing pre-images and sending RPC calls, I would say this should stay in.

Reviewer: I won't block it on this, but it should at least not start out in the imperative. At least start with, "One way to create a proposal is to use the Polkadot JS Apps website. From the website, use either ..."

Author: Agreed, will amend.
